Hack Together: Speaker resources (Codespaces & SWA) (#238)
Azure-Samples/contoso-real-estate: community-events/content/challenge-project/00-analyzing-portal.md

# 🔎 Exercise 1: Analyzing the `portal` project

> The `portal` of the Contoso Real Estate project is a simulation of a real estate agency where you can view the properties available for sale, rent, or buy. The architecture of the project was designed in a composable architecture.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `portal` of the Contoso Real Estate project is a simulation of a real estate agency website where you can view the properties available for sale, rent, or buy. The architecture of the project was designed in a composable architecture.
```

Composable architecture is a software architecture that divides the application into smaller parts, where each part is responsible for a specific functionality. This architecture is also known as micro frontends.

**Advantages of using composable architecture:**

- **Reusability**: components can be reused in different parts of the application.
- **Scalability**: the application can be scaled horizontally, that is, it can be divided into smaller parts, and each part can be developed by a different team.
- **Maintainability**: the application can be maintained more easily as each component is responsible for a specific functionality.

## Project architecture

The Contoso Real Estate project is composed of three main parts:

- `portal`: is the main project, where it contains the home page and the components that will be used on all pages.
- `blog`: is the project that contains the real estate blog. In this project, `Strapi` is used as a CMS to manage blog posts.
- `api`: is the project that contains the APIs that will be used in the `portal` project.

![Contoso Real Estate Diagram](./images/e2e-full-horizontal.drawio.png)

### The `portal` components

> This project was developed using Angular, and you will learn from execution to deployment using the Azure Static Web Apps CLI in Codespaces.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This project was developed using Angular, and you will learn how it works, and how to run and deploy it using the Azure Static Web Apps CLI in Codespaces.
```

Accessing the `packages/portal/src/app` folder, you will see the components that make up the `portal`:

- `app`: main component of the application, responsible for rendering the other components.
  - `about`: about page
  - `authentication`: login page (authentication)
  - `checkoutpage`: checkout page

>   - `core`: component responsible for writing data to the browser (local storage)

Reviewer: `core` folder has been deprecated since a few Angular version, as it's not needed anymore. Any services located in there should be moved to `shared`, it probably came from a PR.

Author: Okay, I'll remove `core` from the list

  - `homepage`: home page
  - `profile`: user profile page
  - `rentalpage`: rental page
  - `searchpage`: search page
  - `shared`: folder that contains the components of universal use in the application, such as buttons, inputs, etc.

>   - `tos`: responsible for standardizing all `TextBlockComponent`

Reviewer: `tos` aimed to be the Terms Of Service page, but currently is a placeholder 😉

![Componentes](./images/gif-arquitetura-portal.gif)

### Environment variables

> Within the `portal` project, we can see a folder called environments, which contains the secrets of environment variables to run the project locally (Codespace in this case) or in production. This is a good practice to avoid exposing sensitive data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Within the `portal` project, we can see a folder called environments, which contains the configuration needed to run the project locally (or in Codespaces in this case), or in production. This is a good practice to avoid exposing sensitive data here, as these values are packaged within the application and can be retrieved easily.
```
